Nice post. I'm one of the few people around who's used all four plus an Oticon Connect Clip. For me, LE Audio wins by quite a long way.
I have the Oticon Intent but just got the Oticon Easy LE Adapter. It only works with Oticon HA but is a small USB-C dongle. I’ve used it on my iPhone 16 Pro, iPad, and work PC. Basically you pair your hearing aids to the dongle and plug it into the USBC port on the device you want Bluetooth LE Audio and then it works. I can stream and take calls on my PC by plugging the device into the USB C port. Same with my iPad or iPhone (which can pair using the app but the dongle is a much stronger and stable connection. Works like the TV3 device. I got it from my Audiologist last week and just started playing with it. So far it’s fantastic and add LE Audio to any device. It says that it’s not for Apple devices but it works just fine and I tried it on three different devices. Good luck but this is the way!
All good points. It is brand locked to Oticon and only works with Intent and maybe Zeal. I’ve been testing it out in various scenarios. I’ve been able to turn off Bluetooth on my phone, plug in the adapter and get calls and streaming media to my hearing aids. For me this is a game change to be able to use on my work computer since I have a lot of Zoom and Teams meetings. I told my audiologist I’d report back in a month. So far I’m the first patient to ask about and they let me have the one unit in the office to try.
I was pretty surprised but I think I’m more tech savvy and interested than most of her patients. I moved from the Oticon More w to the Intent 1 because 1. My hearing needed it and 2. I needed a better more stable Bluetooth connection. The Intent are better at keeping both HA’s connected but I still experience drop offs. I’ve been researching anything I can find to make the Bluetooth better and more stable. I came across the Easy LE Adapter in my research. I think it’s a pretty new device and unless the Oticon Reps talk about it you won’t know that it even exists. My audiologist thought it only helped to get AuraCast but it does so much more. I’ll report back.
I dig my heels in when I see a device is locked to a brand. I've got an Avantree dongle that does the same thing as far as I know. A big selling point of LE Audio for me is that it should make devices interoperable.
The Easy LE Adapter does work on your Philips 9050, too! What I like about it is it's low profile, unlike the CR82 Aura.
I have an Oticon Intent hearing aid paired directly with my iPhone 17, and it works well overall. If I start using the Oticon Easy LE Adapter, does that mean my hearing aids will no longer be paired directly with my iPhone, but only with the adapter? If I don’t have the adapter plugged into my phone, will I no longer be able to answer phone calls through my hearing aids? Also, is the connection significantly more stable when using the adapter? For example, would I be able to keep my phone in my pants pocket without the connection cutting out, whereas it sometimes does with the direct Bluetooth connection? I’d love to hear from anyone who has experience using the Easy LE Adapter. Thanks!
So if I don’t use the adapter my HA connect to my iPhone 16 through the app. If I use the adapter I can actually turn off the Bluetooth on my phone and everything still plays through the HA. If I left Bluetooth on my iPhone turned on and have the adapter plugged in it also works fine. The HA seem to be paired to the phone through either Bluetooth or the LE Adapter but everything stays paired. I tested leaving the adapter in but turning off Bluetooth and it works. If I unplug the adapter with Bluetooth off then I lose connection. If I keep Bluetooth on and take out the adapter it still stays connected. I’m happy to play around and try anything else that you can think of. I did the same thing in an iPad Pro and an iPad Mini 7. I’ll try to see if the adapter works in an Android device this week and try a Mac Air and PC. I’ll share whatever I find out.
So if I get this right I can use the Oticon Easy LE Adapter on my macbook while still being connected and receiving phone calls like I do now on my iPhone? That would be awesome and an instant buy.
I actually tried the Easy LE Adapter with Signia Hearing Aids and it worked aswell.
The Connect Clip. You had to wear it around your neck. Easy to lose (I lost two). Latenchy from the BT classic audio. Just fiddly. mfi and ASHA. Definitely better than nothing. Occasional glitching and connection issues. Sound quality is adequate. Range is just ok. Bluetooth classic audio (trial of Phonak Audeo 90). Better audio quality than mfi and ASHA. Short dropouts every 20 minutes or so. Other people report better or worse experiences than this. LE Audio. Once connected, it's connected. No glitching, no dropouts. Experience has gradually improved with updates to phone and hearing aids. I spent some time switching between LE Audio and ASHA on my phone and comparing the sound. Subjectively for me, LE Audio is a more natural sound. ASHA is 'flatter'. Best description I can come up with at short notice. I got the best range out of LE Audio. Slightly better than 'classic'. Outdoors I can walk 60 or 70 paces before it starts to glitch. When it does glitch it's less annoying than that squawking you get with classic. Move back a couple of steps and everything returns. Most importantly, you (usually) get Auracast.
Doesn't classic come with packet loss concealment as well? Or does it depend on which bluetooth chip is being used?
I've only ever had Bluetooth LE (Oticon Zircon 2), and I get dropouts at times. I've heard others complain of the same thing. Maybe it was much worse with Classic? I suspect it's mainly in areas with a lot of interference.
Google tells me that the Zircon 2 supports ASHA. I didn't find any mention of it supporting LE Audio. It's one of the biggest sources of confusion in Bluetooth. Bluetooth LE is not the same as Bluetooth LE Audio.
Oh, that explains that then.
Hey! Thanks for reaching out! As a guy that’s grown up with headphones stuck in their ear since the 1984 Koss PortaPro, for the love of God… I will pay five figures for the first HA manufacturer that can figure out how stream audio as well as an AirPod. (INCLUDING be just as user friendly...) I’ve heard all the excuses but I know it’s possible because there’s money to be made and the demand is just going to grow… Plz pass along.
Great explanation thanks. With the ubiquitous used of ear pods I wonder if the development path for HA to smaller and smaller devices (ie smaller batteries doing power hungry things) is a sort of legacy fallacy? I have total loss (AN) in one ear and reduced hearing in the other. I'd gladly swap my Phillips HA and it's Bluetooth issues for my Jabra earbud size wise if it had hearing aid capability. I recognise maybe people who don't listen to as much streamed content as me may prefer the "discreet" route. I guess we're all different.
Just wanted to mention, they do basically exist and work more or less like AirPods. I use Rexton M-Core B Li-HP aids for moderate to profound hearing loss and basically have the same circumstances as AirPod users with about two days of battery.
Thanks. I'll have a look at them when I replace the current Philips. They're my first HAs (had them about 2 years) and I'd call them "average". Bluetooth is terrible, noisy rooms awful. I'd rather a bigger "box" that could do more now that I understand the compromises. For my first pair I'd have probably opted for size over function because until you've worn them you just don't know what bargain you're striking.
Dates the three of us then. Something that looks and sounds like an airpod, uses LE Audio and can act as a hearing aid- including for severe losses- for short periods of time... that's what I want.
Another very important factor is the Acoustics! The balanced armature drivers in HAs are not capable of frequencies below 80 to 100 Hz, and (Oticon Intents can drop to 80, most can't). Upper end is maxed out at 10KHz, which most HA users can't hear anyway. You need occluded earmolds to really take advantage of streaming audio, as well, so that's another factor. Most audis' don't consider earmolds, and fit patients with open domes, which leaks out whatever low frequencies there are. Once again, acoustics. If they ever move into MEMS, we may have some ability to challenge good IEMs or Pods. LEA is as good as it gets, for now, and with a phone that suports it, coupled with LEA HAs you can get decent streaming audio, but it ain't HiFi!
When I wrote Apple directly, they denied they had any plans to make professional hearing aids. After all they have a lot of lucrative long-term deals with the Big 5 makers.
Do you have insight into Apple’s roadmap?
I agree with OP that Apple essentially already has a hearing aid. My guess is they're not in a hurry to go farther than they have in part because of market size. The HA market isn't that big compared to earbuds in general, and making a more traditional HA is a lot of work.
I'd say that you're using AI quite well then.
>Your aids "taking over" all audio on Android is by design. Under ASHA and LE Audio, Android registers hearing aids as an accessibility device and gives them priority for media routing. They reconnect aggressively and pull audio back from speakers on purpose. Nothing is broken; it's the OS doing what it was told. Thank you for explaining how BT protocol works among the different OSs and chipsets, especially this part. I both love it and hate it. I'm glad my HAs connect seamlessly and the app always works. But there's times I just want my music to come out my BT speaker. But if I walk away, when I come back my HAs grab the audio.
Love this information. I’m saving every bit of it. TY
Thanks for the useful info. I have the Sennheiser hearing aids and I use streaming a lot for zoom audio and phone calls. One behavior that I find annoying is using iPhone maps while riding my motorcycle. The hearing aid is quiet but then when the map needs to do the spoken directions, the hearing aid doesn’t just do the directions. It also amplifies the background noise at the same time which is annoying because the motorcycle and the wind noise can be loud. I don’t understand why the hearing aid can’t just stream only the phone audio?
Most informative thread I've read in this sub. Thank you
There is yet another standard: Bluetooth LE, not to be confused the Bluetooth LE Audio. This has the long battery life advantages of Bluetooth LE Audio, but with much poorer audio quality, even worse than Bluetooth Classic. And Bluetooth LE does not support Auracast.
Thanks for those details! I had no idea there were that many different protocols and that some were much more proprietary than others. One thing to try to pass on to your management would be that miniaturization is much less of a concern to people nowadays. The "stigma" of wearing HA's is pretty much gone - it's so acceptable to have buds in your ears that most folks don't care anymore and that leaves a lot more room for power, antennas, and better speakers (as well as more processing).
As a recently accredited “hearing aid specialist” this post is very insightful. Thank you for sharing.
Ah, thank you so much for this information. The "accessibility device" behavior explains why I can't answer my phone on my watch (both Pixels) - the call is accepted, but the HAs will be the media choice. IMHO, I would like to be able to override the HAs with the watch, but I understand it now.
Yes, per call changing works (mostly). I'm thinking of this use case: 1) phone is across the room, maybe on a charger, 2) I'm in the middle of an activity like cooking where I can't drop everything, 3) so I press Answer on the watch, 4) then sadness, because media is still associated with the aids. A similar use case arises when taking a call while driving, with phone paired with the vehicle. It's probably best to turn off BT on the aids in the driving case.
This is so informative! Thank you for all of it. I use phonak audeo i90 with the Motorola razr. The thing that drives me crazy is the background hiss whenever the connection initiates, regardless of if a sound ends up playing or not. I asked my audiologist to set the ambient slider one step towards streaming, because that reduced the hiss when I do it manually, but it doesn't seem to have done anything. I'm also a nerd and curious if I'm missing anything because my phone doesn't recognize them as hearing aids, so it's not an "accessibility device"
Have you tried switching between "adaptive" and "fixed" mode in the MyPhonak app? Usually, any crackling or static type of noise is resolved by doing this.
I’ve used MFi on Cochlear Nucleus 7 and 8 for about 8 years and, naturally can’t wait for the Auracast firmware update. Of course, your comment about MFi not being supported on Windows is correct, but it’s not a big issue since my MiniMic (or a neckloop) is easily patched to any 3.5 mm audio output, and I use that on one of my TVs (the others use TVStreamers) and on my Windows machines. The reliability of connection with my iPhone and streaming devices is excellent. The power requirements are low. But the real promise of Auracast is realized when more and more public audio sources and most modern TVs and computers support Auracast and eliminate the adaptor problem.
Thanks for the clear information. I’m being driven slowly crazy by the software on my Phonak HAs. What I’m discovering is that as long as Bluetooth is on, the software will “decide for me“ what it thinks I need. This is bonkers. I’ve had the Bluetooth screening suddenly go on in the middle of playing a little puzzle game. Occasionally, it toggles on briefly when I put the phone to sleep. The whole thing is done without any regard for the user – software developers have forgotten all about human interface design. I actually filed a mild complaint with the company, and got back a kind of regurgitated “those are features, and this is the way it is“. Even my HA provider said the software is bonkers. Unfortunately, I think they’re going to continue to try and design things on the assumption that users are dumb, software designers, and the manufacturers are smart, get used to it. If they would put the same resources into, at least people like me who would love to have a eight band or 12 band EQ instead of the low medium and high “dumb EQ” I think they make a lot of headway. It’s really aggravating and I don’t think there’s anything to be done about it. They are not going to listen to their users.
I have a Pixel 9 and Widex Allure. Maybe you can help. Anytime you do anything on the pixel that would normally create a sound, the hearing aids go into streaming mode (which causes real sounds to be muffled and you can hear everything change). This happens in any situation where the pixel would be making a sound, even if you have soumds turned on vibration mode only. For example, take a screenshot or take a picture, suddenly the hearing aids briefly click into streaming mode and then turn off. Even though there's no sound effect. Even if you take a video, it goes into streaming mode even though it's recording sound from the phone. We've also been unable to find a way to create it so when you use voice dictation it goes through the phone instead of the hearing aid. Same issue, every time you dictate the hearing aids click into streaming mode. There is a setting toggle for this in the Android Bluetooth hearing aid settings where you can choose "play all system sounds through phone" nstead of hearing aids. And it will play the system sound through the phone, but still the hearing aids click into streaming mode and you temporarily lose sound. Anyone heard of this? My audiologist and the widex rep can't figure it out.
I figured it was an issue on the Android side. Unfortunately, none of those solutions work for me. Is this a problem with every hearing aid on the Android platform? It seems like such a obvious issue but I can't seem to find any info about it anywhere so I wondered if I'm the only one who has it? Is my only solution getting an iphone?
Thank you for all these explanations and for triggering this discussion. I acquired a Widex Allure ARRD1 a few months ago. All the printed material I could find mentions LE, not LE Audio. I was wondering if this truly means my device is LE only, or is someone for some reason omitted the "Audio" part in the manuals. I could ask my audiologist, but I am not sure his answers would be quite reliable. So I started playing music on my Android device (Samsung S23+), then I went to Accessibility in the Android settings and ensured "Hearing aids" was activated (which it wasn't, IIRC). Then I tapped on the cog on my HA's line in the list of connected Bluetooth devices, and saw that my device was set to ASHA, but Android allowed me to change that to LE Audio, which I selected. Immediately, the sound level jumped up then decreased progressively as my HA normalised the level. If I switched back to ASHA, the sound level only lowered marginally. Unfortunately, I can't tell about sound quality, what is left of my hearing doesn't allow me to discriminate subtle differences. Maybe I am hearing an improvement. It sure isn't worse. I have a few questions: - Does the fact that Android offers me LE Audio and that I hear music once LE Audio is selected mean that the Widex manual was wrong? - I understand that LE Audio is better for connection stability and has no downside. Can anyone guess why Android defaulted to ASHA instead of LE Audio?
Does anyone know if iphones only support MFI or do they support LE audio? And how (if possible) can I verify which protocol and audio is used on my iphone to ensure I got the best one?
Thanks for the information. You may not know, but do you know how Phonak still has Bluetooth Classic on the Sphere, but claims that they will release a software only upgrade to Auracast?
Thank You. Still unclear about something. If/when Phonak adds Auracast to the Sphere, does that mean it will no longer use Bluetooth Classic for communicating with phones and PC’s? Otherwise, how do you activate Auracast, temporarily?
I'd like to see where they've explicitly commited to enabling LE Audio. 'Ready for'. Weasel words really. I think it means they've commited to it but I'm not sure a lawyer would agree.
Good point. My expectation is that they already have it working. But they know if they release it, there will be a boat load of questions and comments from Users whose other devices don’t support it.
When is Apple going to have Auracast?
Whenever I access my Samsung S26 Ultra for any reason, even an email, my topline Signia HA microphones turn off. I have to turn off the phone's Bluetooth to keep the microphones on. What's going on here and is there a fix?
Bluetooth Classic for me it works everywhere Once again Apple trying to be special
The battery numbers are without any Bluetooth. All Bluetooth takes more energy then not using it.
Thanks for the informative post. I have a couple questions: You mentioned 'brand locked' devices. I was hoping BLE would get rid of that. Does this mean a third party remote mic designed for multiple devices won't work? Any Auracast compatible hearing aid must have some universal functionality right? Chipset. You said to ask about it, what's the right answer? Nordic? And this is for the PC and phone side, not the hearing aid?
Thanks for this, very interesting
Excellent explanation of the complexities of Bluetooth. I have a pair of the Starkey Edge AI 20s that I bought about a year ago. I have a Mac Mini M-4Pro, iPhone Pro Max 16 and an iPad Pro. I have repeatedly had problems with the Bluetooth disconnecting all devices on the Mac Mini whenever I come into my office with the hearing aids on. The problem does not happen whenever my hearing aids are in their charger. My hope was that with Starkey's Auracast update, which came out about three months ago that this problem would be resolved--but it has not. In order to restore Bluetooth connectivity to devices on the Mac Mini (including the hearing aids), I have to connect my Apple Magic Trackpad with a USB cord and turn the Bluetooth on and off, which is a constant never-ending hassle. Anyone else have this problem? If so, I would sure like to know how you resolved it. I recently installed ToothFairy on my Mac but the problem still exists. Any other ideas?
Thanks for the prompt reply. I just tried to reset the Mac's Bluetooth preferences and it had no effect on the problem. I do am reporting it to Starkey. By the way, the problem existed both before and after the Auracast update.
If the hearing aids are unpaired, the Mac retains its bluetooth connection to Apple trackpad and Apple keyboard. When the hearing aids are paired, and become available to the Mac Mini for connection, all bluetooth connections are terminated and the only remedy is to connect the trackpad via USB and turning bluetooth on and off. I am sending a trouble report to Starkey. Thanks for all your help!
This is information I wish I had before I got my first set of HAs (Starkey Genesis AI 24z mRIC) almost 2 years ago. My work laptop was a PC (I've since switched to a MacBook Pro as a reasonable accommodation), my home laptop is a PC, and I have an iPhone. I've had to get the Starkey Remote Mic+ to use my HAs with my home laptop, and I did use them occasionally with my work laptop. I was so excited when my home laptop Windows 11 got the OS update that allowed connections to HAs (and my laptop had the LE-audio capable radio)...only to realize that my HAs need a firmware update that Starkey has still not provided for my HAs. :( I updated my work laptop to a MacBook Pro, and have MFi issues because "apparently" I have too many Bluetooth devices on AND I can't have my HAs paired to my iPhone and the MacBook Pro at the same time. I have found on other forums that this may be a limitation of the brand/model HA I have, as the succeeding two generations (Starkey Omega and Starkey Edge) support multiple Bluetooth connections. But after sinking money into these HAs not even 2 years ago, it's hard to swallow another substantial HA cost, even if I can get the Starkey Edge rebranded at Costco and Sam's Club. I also ran into issues when the latest iPhone came out. I'm an early adopter...and was shocked to realize that HA manufacturers weren't ready with a firmware update to support their models at launch. I went from functioning HAs with an iPhone 14 Pro Max to a semi-functioning HA with an iPhone 17 Pro Max (until the update came through).
I have Phonak Infinios and a Google Pixel 9 Pro. The mobile has LE Audio built in and uses it by default with the aids. I have mixed opinions about some of the BT streaming with the Phonaks, but for the most part, it works well. Phone calls have become so much better for me. Previously, I hated trying to hear with the phone to my ear and I hated using the speaker even more. The Phonaks put the call right in my ears - and Android has a high-quality sound setting for phone calls - so using the phone is a lot better. The sound quality of streamed music, however, is mediocre at best, but that's not their purpose, at least for long listening sessions. Earbuds just sound better. The major gripe I have is one bug with the phone, the Bluetooth, the aids and the app (no, I don't know which one if the culprit). When first installed, the Android Bluetooth settings page had toggles to turn things on and off, like music streaming. Then those controls disappeared. Then they came back after an Android update or a re-installation. Then they disappeared again. I've posted here about it before, so I won't bore anyone again. But no one seems to know why it does this and no one wants to take any responsibility for finding and fixing it. A bug report submission got a lot of attention, mostly from other users with the same issue. From Android developers? Crickets. I contacted Phonak and asked them if this was a bug in their aids or in the app. Not us, they said. There's a toggle in the Phonak app, but it's not as useful as the Android controls, so until this is fixed, I have to live with it.
Thank you for this OP, even though--despite being a techie--I am a bit lost. I was the OP of this [post. ](https://www.reddit.com/r/HearingAids/s/IR01BYrzrj) I bought the Avantree Auracast device and an optical USB connection as described [here ](https://auracastathome.com/), connected it today and it worked. Made me feel better. But that does not get me 2-way communication which I want and I was promised by my audiologist. I am on Android since I gave up on iOS at iPhone 2B. I dread going back but I will if it will make my life easier. I am a Windows user. I could conceivably change that but it would be very disruptive. Is there an accessible device guide? Seems like something we need.
Maybe you can help me understand how the TV3 Oticon device that hooks into a TV work? I can connect my Oticon to the TV device and the connection is fantastic. It consistently plays/stream in both HA for long periods of time without losing connection or intermittent loss of one side or the other. I wish I could get this kind of connection to my iPhone 16 Pro. Obviously, I’ve mentioned the LE Adapter but what’s it that makes the TV device so good? It was just as good with my older Oticon More 2 HAs. Thanks!
Thank you for this helpful information! I appreciate you taking the time to share your insights. I’ve found it very helpful!
Very good post OP! Do you know if Apple support anything better than MFi? I think phone calls/Teams works very good on MFI, but music like spotify has dropouts and does not sound very good. I’m on Widex Moment BTE. Is it so that an Android with LE Auracast has better audio quality than any iphone MFi? Maybe I need to consider switching to android for better audio.
Thank you for good insight on how this actually works!
Ok, so I've been working on an issue where people on phone calls can't hear me clearly. They say my voice is very quiet. I've worked on all kinds of settings.... I have Starkey Omega AI 24 mRICs. Google Pixel 10 Pro phone with all the latest updates. The culprit in my case is LE Audio. On a phone call, with LE Audio enabled, and with using the mic on the phone enabled, the phone's mic volume is lowered. I used a phone number that's an echo test phone number. It basically plays back what you say so you can hear how other people hear you. With LE Audio enabled it was difficult to hear what I was saying. When I disabled it, which forces the phone to use bluetooth classic, my voice was loud and clear. So while they work great for audio coming in while LE Audio is enabled, they kinda suck at actually using the phone. I'll be contacting the android Accessibility team shortly. Also... there's a tiny dongle with a weird name... FlooGoo FMA120 (it's on Amazon). It can be plugged into a PC, a chromebook and who knows what all else. It has the bluetooth radio needed for hearing aids with LE Audio. I have one. It works. There's a little setup on the device itself using their program, but it was easy.
I have Signia charge and go ax3 and a pixel 9 pro I would consider investing in the hardware to make minor adjustments like this because my audiologist is ways very busy.
One of the things that I like about my Resound HAs is that the ambient volume and streaming volume are independently set. I had trialed a different pair (I forget the brand already) which didn’t work the same way and I remember thinking that streaming was broken when I turned down the HA volume while trying to listen to a podcast and sitting underneath a fan at a pizza place. It was only when I realized that the volume setting on my HAs controlled both that I understood what happened.
Allure thanks! A good read.
I can’t get my helmet on if I’m wearing my HAs, so I go without them. I can still hear traffic ok, as I have ski slope hearing loss. But it’s like the world becomes a silent movie otherwise.!
No motorcycle involved for me but the ambient sound mixing with Bluetooth media was driving me crazy while on public transit (buses are loud!) and then my audiologist informed me that they could change a setting that was not available to me that would turn off the mics whenever a Bluetooth Media connection was made. That made a huge difference in my ability to hear a podcast on the bus without having the jack the volume up to deafening levels. I do not understand why this isn't a user side setting. For reference I have the Phonak Audeo Infinio I90 Sphere and turning down the ambient volume wasn't sufficient to reduce the ambient noise enough.
Oh my goodness you have completely changed my life, THANK YOU!! I see the setting on my Phonak app "Ambient balance" -- as soon as I changed it the audio sounded crisper and the surrounding sounds quieted. This is an issue when I walk my dog, jog, or ride my bike and you've really solved it! I'll keep your tip in mind about safety; this does mean I'm losing the amplified sound benefits of my HAs when streaming. But as long as safety and surroundings are kept in mind this is a really great feature I didn't know existed. Thank you!
I have Oticon Zircon 2s. My audiologist said they can only program them to drop ambient sound by, I think, a maximum of 12dB. If I want more, I have to turn it down myself.
Philips 9050 here. Not the absolute smallest but small enough. Even so, I get almost two days out of one charge with a few hours of streaming. No dropouts to speak of (LE Audio). They also fit telecoil in there. It's funny, I didn't think stigma was a thing for me until I imagined myself wearing a BTE style aid. Maybe it's the lumpy controls they come with that turn me off. Anyway... Sound quality is the only thing I'd trade size for. Battery life and connectivity are already good, don't use telecoil so that can go. If the wider mic spacing helped me with speech understanding in noise I'd be interested but the improvement would need to be measurable. If a bigger receiver gave me better music... well, back to battery life I guess. I mentioned in the other thread that the device I'd like for Christmas is a bit like an Airpod Pro. I'd wear it around the house to listen to music and still be able to talk to my family. It would meet targets for serious hearing loss (yes, I know). I'd still keep my 'real' hearing aids. Can we clarify what you mean by "mold"? For most of us it means the part- made from an ear impression or 3d scan- that we stick in our ear. I guess you mean manufacturing machinery?
I am guessing the shape of the casing.
Second that almost entirely. Although I ain't so happy about the Noise background on my Phillips but that could be the way they were programmed. Be nice to be able to tweek that a bit without having to go back and forwards to the audiologist office which doesn't do a very good job of emulating a noisy pub 😂
Phillips Hearlink 9040 from Costco Aust here. The dude with the AN on the left and mid/moderate hearing loss on the right from the other day. So my hearlinks are my first HAs. I stream a lot of audio during the day. Maybe 4 to 5 hours. Think I only ever had a problem once with low charge in the 2 years I have had them. The issue I have with them compared with my Jabra earbuds is that: they sound horrible (adjustable eq is hopeless for me), the BT drops out a lot and they don't work well in noisy environments. So unless I know I will be in a prolonged conversation somewhere I just stream using my Jabras and leave the Phillips at home eg gym. With my AN I only wear 1 aid in my left ear. The audiologist told me not to bother getting CROS as it would only confuse me. Don't know if that would have been true but I took the advice so the second hearing aid is a spare for when I lose the first one. It's programmed only for the right ear as well. You answered a lot of the issues the other day and the explanation of how BT works makes sense from some of the limitations I have found. I think again you have hit the nail on the head. No one got fired for buying IBM and no one is going to get fired for making miniature HAs. What needs to happen is for someone to either break from the pack or a disrupter like Apple to decide to pop a couple of mics on one of their pods and see if there's a market. As you know there's a few tentative steps already. Once that happens, people will vote with their feet and if buds can get enough buyers, they'll become a thing. cheers
I understand you are sensitive to being accused of promotion but I'd be interested in your opinion of the best OTC bud for say moderate loss. You can DM me if you like.
Google search said I'm dreaming 😂. Thanks for your posts. They're very informative.
No hate, but you’re using AI to write right?
I assumed (see above) that this was the answer. You are very bright and knowledgeable on this topic. It is not "costing you credibility." What it is doing is making us doubt you are human. My humble suggestion is to use a different translator. Use Deepl or something similar that will more faithfully translate for you. Ai writes English in a way that to native speakers of English reads as overly informal, full of slang, idiom and cliche. 艾的英语写法在英语母语者看来过于随意，充满了俚语、习语和陈词滥调。 If you want to sound more authentic don't use Ai. Just use a translator and be you. 如果你想让表达更自然，就别用AI。直接用翻译工具，做你自己就好。
OP your musings are interesting and informative. I was one of the posters asking about BT connectivity last weekend. It was a miserable weekend trying unsuccessfully to pair my new Starkeys with Windows. I was especially pissed at my audiologist who swore up, down and backwards that all the HA connect with everything no problem, only to find out here that was simply false. So, I went back in to see her yesterday morning. She was apologetic, admitted the Starkeys were wrong for me, took out a pair of Phonaks, and they paired instantly. Then, apropos to your post here, she looked at me while holding a Starkey in one hand and a Phonak in the other, and said with a look of great concern, "but the problem for you is that the Phonaks are so much....bigger." I am looking at these two tiny things. And while there is difference, it's not "so much bigger." And, even if it is, who cares! Not me! I'm not retired. I run a business. I am on zoom calls all day. I paid $5k+ for these things and I am pissed they don't work as promised. The audiologist knows all these things plus that I am a man, I am not vain, and that my wife--to whom I am happily married and who came to my first and second appointments--just wants me to hear her! And (mostly) I want to hear her too. So, yes, size does appear to matter, but maybe it matters more to the practioner than to the patient! There should be a set of diagnostic criteria for both Audiologists and Patients to reveal whether size obsession is interfering with choosing the best device that will achieve highest patient satisfaction.
No, if size was eliminated as a criterion because the diagnostic criteria eliminated size as a consideration for the patient, which device would you fit that patient with? You only care about size being identical if it remains a consideration albeit lower in importance compared to other considerations. I also note you didn't answer the question below about your use of Ai. Maybe you are writing this in a foreign language and translating with Ai but your phrasing does smack of Claude. The content is great.
Oh I am unsure too, as to why manufacturers are going for smaller when bigger would allow much more with the current technology we have. In fact, I have been living in hope that one of the big names release a power version (so bigger) of their current tech but not sure it will happen, it seems to be a niche branch. So no fancy new features, just what they have now in BTE format. I find BTE sounds better. I suppose despite people claiming the stigma is gone, there is still a lot of prejudice around wearing HAs and sales clearly shows a preference for smaller formats. Manufacturers will go where the money is.
Signia charge and go ax3 here again... I also have telcoils in mine that I didn't mention last post. I go to a fair amount of museums and public exhibitions and telcoils are great Un those spaces! I can't wait for auracast to really take off. I would trade for a larger shell (or drop tc in favour of) more microphones for better speach recognition in louder spaces. What I would give to be able to look in a direction and really be able to hear my already quiet wife in a restaurant!
No, clearly the answer is more microphones! At least 6 in each side! Otherwise, yeah... We probably need to bite the bullet and get one of those external mics that pairs to the aids. Would be a lot easier...
Phonak AI Edge 20 - I really wish speech in noise (e.g. restaurant) worked much better. Even in AI speech mode, it's difficult.
Will bone conduction find a place? I have a set that rests just in front of the ear and the quality is phenomenal compared to the music setting on my Widex Allure
Thank you for this post. It’s really helpful. I have moderate to severe hearing loss and have been wondering why I can’t just get a good OTC pair. Not helping me hear the high frequencies (OTC not able to be adjusted to reach them) is a good reason for me to go with a prescription pair.
Yeah I’m in the same boat. And I’m at the top of the range for my Costco Jabra hearing aids
Can you go to another Audiologist? You might also get some assistance from Vocational Rehabilitation.
My experience is that the audiologist matters as much as the devices.
Yes! Measures, and listens to the patient. Ask me how I know :-(
Indeed, yes! When I got my first pair of hearing aids about six years ago, they were way too sharp and loud. Fork on plate was like ice pick in the ear. As I walked out from that fitting, I remember complaining to that audiologist. But she said I’m only trying to get you back to normal. My mistake was not pushing harder. I ended up not wearing them for four years, until I figured out how to do the programming myself. Made do with the Apple AirPods and their hearing aid function. I changed the buttons so I had volume control, and I cranked up the impulse noise suppression to maximum. At that point, I could wear them when I visited my grandchildren, but they were still very fatiguing. Then about six months ago, I decided to give hearing aids another try, since my hearing had declined somewhat. I was also intrigued by the PHONAK ACTIVENTS. Forgive the capitals, I’m dictating and that’s the only way to get the phone to write the correct words. Different audiologist, told her very firmly about my previous experience. I trialed them, as well as the latest OTICONS. Top technology for each one. I was at a point where I was going to not worry about the money and get as much intelligibility as possible. PHONAKS worked much better. The sphere mode was amazing, the volume controls were extremely useful, and the default boost level was quite comfortable. Background, at this point, I have moderate to severe hearing loss. I watched a lot of videos on the Internet, and paid a premium to go to a clinic that did both earwax removal and real ear measurement. Same clinic that did the first fitting that did not work out. In order to use them, I had to forget about insurance. The first pair I tried were RESOUNDS with the microphone inside the ear canal. I should’ve mentioned that both my hearing aids are the receiver in Canal style. Anyway, I decided to buy the PHONAKS AUDEO INFINIO ULTRA SPHERE I 90s. Based on Internet videos, I decided I wanted custom molds and trialed both conventional receivers and ACTIVENTS, both with custom molds. Pay to have them made. First set of custom molds bothered my left ear just a tiny bit. And my audiologist encouraged me to have them remade which was done for free. And that was a great suggestion. I decided to go with the conventional receivers, but since I can program them myself, and I have stored both fittings, I can always switch out the receivers as need be. Bottom line: My current audiologist is exceptional. You could call it a three-way dance between the devices, her skill and judgment, and the feedback I give her. My level of intelligibility is vastly improved, though not as good as before my hearing deteriorated, the comfort level is excellent. I love the experience of going through a day with these hearing aids and wear them all day every day. Audiologists talk about give your brain time to adjust. But when things are right, the adjustment is easy and painless. The problem is that that idea also covers the situations when things are just wrong. And it can be used to excuse a poor fitting. DM me if you live near Menlo Park, CA and want my audiologist’s name.
Wait, how do you handle the fork on plate screeching? I thought that was just me but it might be my hearing aids. I have OTC hearing aids.
It’s not bad at all on my new hearing aids. I think it’s because when the audiologist programmed the she said it to reject impulse noise. There are three or four stages on the impulse noise rejection. There might be something that can be done with your hearing aids to minimize it.
If your audiologist or Hearing Instrument Specialist doesn't do REM, then you're not getting the full benefit of prescription hearing aids.
Agreed. Apparently, only about 30% of clinics do it. If they don't do it, go elsewhere. That is one of the great things about Costco, is that is standard practice, as well as a very thorough exam.
I just bought OTC aids for my 94 yo technology challenged father earlier this week. He lost his last one and his caregiver's dog found it before the caregivers did and the dog ate it. He can't use a cellphone and has no need for Bluetooth. The OTC ones I bought have 7 levels of adjustment that he can make with the push of a button. They also have an adjustment between quiet and noisy but he didn't figure out how to make that adjustment yet. They are rechargeable and came with a nice case that can be separated from the power cord for travel - although his traveling days are behind him now. They arrived from Amazon in one day and I had two days to work with him with before I had to leave and come home. He wore both of them both days all day (even though he only had one HA previously). He was very happy with them and I noticed he was asking me to turn the TV down while I was there. The caregivers have since reported that he asked them not to talk so loud now. They were under $200 plus taxes and I didn't have to schedule an appointment and get him to it. He lives over an hour from any discount HA providere like Costco or Sam's Club and since he doesn't drive anymore, he would have to pay mileage for the caregiver to take him. He does not have a hearing benefit because he is on hospice now and I was not motivated to spend a lot of money on something he might lose again. If you have elderly parents who are technology challenged, like my dad, I would recommend OTC aids like we ordered from Amazon. I was also able to sit with him and "shop" with him on my cellphone for the ones we purchased. We viewed lots of videos and read lots of reviews before making out final selection and he was involved in the selection.
I was hoping it would do that. I am also a HA user. I have and appreciate all the bells and whistles on my HA's (especially Bluetooth and the ability to program one button to turn my speaker in when watching TV) but I knew my Dad could not utilize those technologies. thank you for your comment.
Karthus Hearing Aids,... https://www.amazon.com/dp/B0FRXRGK62?ref=ppx_pop_mob_ap_share
”Same receiver suppliers, often the same chip families, so the raw components are less different than people assume. Where the money actually goes on a prescription device is the fitting software ecosystem, the clinical validation, the channel margin, and the service that comes with it.” So why don't they charge the right amount for the aids, and more for the fitting?